OUR KEDISCUSSION "WHY IS THIS HAPPENING."
HAPPENING." "THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" STARTS
"THE RACHEL MADDOW SHOW" STARTS NOW.
NOW. >> GOOD EVENING, CHRIS.
>> GOOD EVENING, CHRIS. THANKS MY FRIEND.
THANKS MY FRIEND. THANKS TO YOU AT HOME FOR
THANKS TO YOU AT HOME FOR JOINING US.
JOINING US. NOTHING LIKE THIS HAS EVER
NOTHING LIKE THIS HAS EVER HAPPENED BEFORE.
HAPPENED BEFORE. ALMOST.
ALMOST. ISH.
ISH. THERE WAS THAT ONE OTHER TIME.
THERE WAS THAT ONE OTHER TIME. >> TODAY A LIMOUSINE BROUGHT
>> TODAY A LIMOUSINE BROUGHT JOHN MITCHELL TO COURT.
JOHN MITCHELL TO COURT. THEY USED TO CALL HIMEN
THEY USED TO CALL HIMEN ENCHALADA.
ENCHALADA. WHEN THE TIME CAME FOR A FINAL
WHEN THE TIME CAME FOR A FINAL STATEMENT, MITCHELL AND HIS
STATEMENT, MITCHELL AND HIS LAWYER HAD NOTHING TO SAY.
LAWYER HAD NOTHING TO SAY. ALL EYES WERE ON THE MAN KNOWN
ALL EYES WERE ON THE MAN KNOWN AS MAXIMUM JOHN, THE JUDGE
AS MAXIMUM JOHN, THE JUDGE WASTED NO TIME ON A SPEECH.
WASTED NO TIME ON A SPEECH. MITCH
MITCH THEY MUST SERVE TWO AND A HALF
THEY MUST SERVE TWO AND A HALF YEARS IN PRISON, MAYBE EIGHT.
YEARS IN PRISON, MAYBE EIGHT. THE JUDGE WOULD NOT COMMENT AS
THE JUDGE WOULD NOT COMMENT AS HE LEFT THE COURTHOUSE.
HE LEFT THE COURTHOUSE. JOHN MITCHELL LEFT GROWLING IT
JOHN MITCHELL LEFT GROWLING IT COULD HAVE BEEN WORSE, HE COULD
COULD HAVE BEEN WORSE, HE COULD HAVE SEN MENACEDTENCED ME TO SPE
HAVE SEN MENACEDTENCED ME TO SPE REST OF MY LIFE WITH MARTHA
REST OF MY LIFE WITH MARTHA MITCHELL.
MITCHELL. >> COULD HAVE BEEN WORSE, COULD
>> COULD HAVE BEEN WORSE, COULD HAVE SENTENCED ME TO SPEND THE
HAVE SENTENCED ME TO SPEND THE REST OF MY LIFE WITH MARTHA
REST OF MY LIFE WITH MARTHA MITCHELL.
MITCHELL. JOHN MITCHELL WAS RICHARD
JOHN MITCHELL WAS RICHARD NIXON’S PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
NIXON’S PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN MANAGER.
MANAGER. WHEN NIXON WON IN ’68, JOHN
WHEN NIXON WON IN ’68, JOHN MITCHELL’S MARRIAGE HAD BROKEN
MITCHELL’S MARRIAGE HAD BROKEN UP IN 1973 IN THE MIDST OF THE
UP IN 1973 IN THE MIDST OF THE WATERGATE SCANDAL AND NIXON
WATERGATE SCANDAL AND NIXON RESIGNED IN SCANDAL AND HE AT
RESIGNED IN SCANDAL AND HE AT LEAST WAS PARDONED FOR WATERGATE
LEAST WAS PARDONED FOR WATERGATE RELATED CRIMES BUT IN 1975 WHEN
RELATED CRIMES BUT IN 1975 WHEN NIXON CAMPAIGN MANAGER AND EX
NIXON CAMPAIGN MANAGER AND EX U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL JOHN
U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL JOHN MITCHELL WAS SENTENCED FOR HIS
MITCHELL WAS SENTENCED FOR HIS OWN CRIMES IN THE WATERGATE
OWN CRIMES IN THE WATERGATE SCANDAL AND HE WAS SENTENCED FOR
SCANDAL AND HE WAS SENTENCED FOR CONSPIRACY AND OBSTRUCTION OF
CONSPIRACY AND OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE AND PERJURY AND LYING TO
JUSTICE AND PERJURY AND LYING TO INVESTIGATORS, HIS ONLY COMMENT
INVESTIGATORS, HIS ONLY COMMENT TO THE PRESS UPON GETTING HIS
TO THE PRESS UPON GETTING HIS FEDERAL PRISON SENTENCE HANDED
FEDERAL PRISON SENTENCE HANDED DOWN WAS THAT AT LEAST HE
DOWN WAS THAT AT LEAST HE WOULDN’T HAVE TO SPEND ANY MORE
WOULDN’T HAVE TO SPEND ANY MORE TIME WITH HIS DARN WIFE.
TIME WITH HIS DARN WIFE. SURE, I’M GOING TO PRISON BUT
SURE, I’M GOING TO PRISON BUT COULD BE WORSE.
COULD BE WORSE. YOU KNOW, EVERY GENERATION
YOU KNOW, EVERY GENERATION THINKS IT INVENTS THE NEWEST AND
THINKS IT INVENTS THE NEWEST AND WORST KINDS OF SCUM BAGS IN
WORST KINDS OF SCUM BAGS IN PUBLIC LIFE.
PUBLIC LIFE. HISTORY GAVE US GOOD ONES, TOO.
HISTORY GAVE US GOOD ONES, TOO. DO NOT GIVE HISTORY SHORT SHIFT
DO NOT GIVE HISTORY SHORT SHIFT ON HISTORIC DAYS LIKE THIS.
ON HISTORIC DAYS LIKE THIS. TODAY FOR THE VERY FIRST TIME IT
TODAY FOR THE VERY FIRST TIME IT WAS THE SITTING PRESIDENT OF THE
WAS THE SITTING PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES WHOSE CAMPAIGN
UNITED STATES WHOSE CAMPAIGN CHAIR WAS SENTENCED TO FEDERAL
CHAIR WAS SENTENCED TO FEDERAL PRISON.
PRISON. JOHN MITCHELL DIDN’T GET HIS
JOHN MITCHELL DIDN’T GET HIS SENTENCE UNTIL NIXON WAS OUT OF
SENTENCE UNTIL NIXON WAS OUT OF OFFICE AND WAS A FORMER
OFFICE AND WAS A FORMER PRESIDENT.
PRESIDENT. JOHN MITCHELL WAS SENTENCED TO
JOHN MITCHELL WAS SENTENCED TO TWO AND A HALF YEARS IN PRISON
TWO AND A HALF YEARS IN PRISON IN 1975.
IN 1975. MITCHELL ENDED UP GETTING
MITCHELL ENDED UP GETTING RELEASED FROM PRISON AFTER
RELEASED FROM PRISON AFTER SERVING 19 MONTHS BECAUSE OF
SERVING 19 MONTHS BECAUSE OF POOR HEALTH.
POOR HEALTH. TODAY IT WAS PRESIDENT TRUMP’S
TODAY IT WAS PRESIDENT TRUMP’S CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN PAUL MANAFORT
CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN PAUL MANAFORT AND HE BEAT MITCHELL’S RECORD
AND HE BEAT MITCHELL’S RECORD TODAY BECAUSE HE WAS GIVEN A
TODAY BECAUSE HE WAS GIVEN A MUCH LONGER SENTENCE THAN
MUCH LONGER SENTENCE THAN MITCHELL WAS.
MITCHELL WAS. MANAFORT TODAY WAS SENTENCED TO
MANAFORT TODAY WAS SENTENCED TO 47 MONTHS JUST SHY OF FOUR YEARS
47 MONTHS JUST SHY OF FOUR YEARS IN FEDERAL PRISON.
IN FEDERAL PRISON. NOW THERE IS NO PAROLE IN THE
NOW THERE IS NO PAROLE IN THE FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM ANYMORE SO
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM ANYMORE SO EVEN THOUGH WE DON’T KNOW
EVEN THOUGH WE DON’T KNOW EXACTLY HOW LONG MANAFORT WILL
EXACTLY HOW LONG MANAFORT WILL SERVE ON THIS SENTENCE, YOU CAN
SERVE ON THIS SENTENCE, YOU CAN SORT OF DO A LITTLE BIT OF A
SORT OF DO A LITTLE BIT OF A MATH IN YOUR HEAD AND START AT
MATH IN YOUR HEAD AND START AT 47 MONTHS, WHICH IS WHAT HE GOT
47 MONTHS, WHICH IS WHAT HE GOT TODAY.
TODAY. YOU SHOULD THEN SUBTRACT NINE
YOU SHOULD THEN SUBTRACT NINE MONTHS CREDIT.
MONTHS CREDIT. THEY ARE GIVING HIM CREDIT FOR
THEY ARE GIVING HIM CREDIT FOR THE TIME HE SERVED.
THE TIME HE SERVED. HE DID GET A LITTLE BIT OF GOOD
HE DID GET A LITTLE BIT OF GOOD TIME CREDIT FOR THAT.
TIME CREDIT FOR THAT. IF YOU DO THAT MATH, IT’S MAYBE
IF YOU DO THAT MATH, IT’S MAYBE A BALL MARK FIGURE OF THREE
A BALL MARK FIGURE OF THREE YEARS REALTIME THAT HE WILL
YEARS REALTIME THAT HE WILL SERVE ON THIS SENTENCE-ISH.
SERVE ON THIS SENTENCE-ISH. WE’LL GET EXPERT ADVICE BUT THIS
WE’LL GET EXPERT ADVICE BUT THIS IS A REMARKABLE THING.
IS A REMARKABLE THING. THIS IS HISTORY.
THIS IS HISTORY. IT’S THE CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN FOR
IT’S THE CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN FOR THE SITTING PRESIDENT OF THE
THE SITTING PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES GOING TO FEDERAL
UNITED STATES GOING TO FEDERAL PRISON FOR YEARS, FOR MULTIPLE
PRISON FOR YEARS, FOR MULTIPLE FELONIES.
FELONIES. ONLY HALF WAY THROUGH THAT
ONLY HALF WAY THROUGH THAT PRESIDENT’S TERM IN OFFICE.
PRESIDENT’S TERM IN OFFICE. PAUL MANAFORT WAS THE FIRST
PAUL MANAFORT WAS THE FIRST INDICTMENT ANNOUNCED BY SPECIAL
INDICTMENT ANNOUNCED BY SPECIAL COUNSEL ROBERT MUELLER BACK IN
COUNSEL ROBERT MUELLER BACK IN 2017.
2017. MANAFORT WAS ORIGINALLY CHARGED
MANAFORT WAS ORIGINALLY CHARGED ALONGSIDE HIS DEPUTY CAMPAIGN
ALONGSIDE HIS DEPUTY CAMPAIGN CHAIR FROM THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN
CHAIR FROM THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN RICK GATES.
RICK GATES. THE TWO OF THEM APPEARED FROM
THE TWO OF THEM APPEARED FROM THE OUTSET TO HAVE LINKED FATES
THE OUTSET TO HAVE LINKED FATES BOTH IN TERMS OF WHAT THEY WERE
BOTH IN TERMS OF WHAT THEY WERE CHARGED WITH AND HOW THEIR CASES
CHARGED WITH AND HOW THEIR CASES WOULD PROCEED THROUGH THE
WOULD PROCEED THROUGH THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM AND
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM AND APPEARED TO BE PEAS IN A POD
APPEARED TO BE PEAS IN A POD UNTIL GATES BAILED.
UNTIL GATES BAILED. GATES DECIDED TO PLEAD GUILTY
GATES DECIDED TO PLEAD GUILTY AND BECOME A COOPERATING WITNESS
AND BECOME A COOPERATING WITNESS WORKING WITH THE PROSECUTION IN
WORKING WITH THE PROSECUTION IN THEIR CASE AGAINST HIS FORMER
THEIR CASE AGAINST HIS FORMER BOSS PAUL MANAFORT AND WORKING
BOSS PAUL MANAFORT AND WORKING WITH THEM ON OTHER ON GOING
WITH THEM ON OTHER ON GOING INVESTIGATIONS, AS WELL.
INVESTIGATIONS, AS WELL. AND NOW MANAFORT’S CASE IS
AND NOW MANAFORT’S CASE IS COMING TO AN END.
COMING TO AN END. MANAFORT IS LEARNING HOW MUCH
MANAFORT IS LEARNING HOW MUCH TIME HE WILL SPEND IN PRISON.
TIME HE WILL SPEND IN PRISON. MEANWHILE, RICK GATES’
MEANWHILE, RICK GATES’ COOPERATION WITH PROSECUTORS
COOPERATION WITH PROSECUTORS CONTINUES.
CONTINUES. GATES DOESN’T YET HAVE HIS OWN
GATES DOESN’T YET HAVE HIS OWN SENTENCING DATE.
SENTENCING DATE. BUT HIS LIFE IS VERY DIFFERENT
BUT HIS LIFE IS VERY DIFFERENT THAN PAUL MANAFORT SINCE HE PLED
THAN PAUL MANAFORT SINCE HE PLED GUILTY.
GUILTY. UNLIKE MANAFORT, RICK GATES IS
UNLIKE MANAFORT, RICK GATES IS AT HOME ALL THIS TIME AND HASN’T
AT HOME ALL THIS TIME AND HASN’T BEEN IN JAIL FOR A DAY, ALTHOUGH
BEEN IN JAIL FOR A DAY, ALTHOUGH THERE IS STILL THE PROSPECT
THERE IS STILL THE PROSPECT THAT’S WHERE HE’S HEADING WHEN
THAT’S WHERE HE’S HEADING WHEN HIS COOPERATION IS FULLY OVER
HIS COOPERATION IS FULLY OVER AND HE’S FINALLY SENTENCED.
AND HE’S FINALLY SENTENCED. THE CONVICTIONS FOR WHICH PAUL
THE CONVICTIONS FOR WHICH PAUL MANAFORT WAS SENTENCED TODAY
MANAFORT WAS SENTENCED TODAY WERE THE ONLY JURY VERDICTS SO
WERE THE ONLY JURY VERDICTS SO FAR SPECIAL COUNSEL ROBERT
FAR SPECIAL COUNSEL ROBERT MUELLER AND SCANDALS AND THE
MUELLER AND SCANDALS AND THE GRAND JURY VERDICT, EVERYBODY
GRAND JURY VERDICT, EVERYBODY PLEAD.
PLEAD. NOBODY ELSE HAS YET FACED A
NOBODY ELSE HAS YET FACED A TRIAL OTHER THAN PAUL MA THAT
TRIAL OTHER THAN PAUL MA THAT FORT
FORT -- MANAFORT AND HE DIDN’T TAKE
-- MANAFORT AND HE DIDN’T TAKE THE STAND IN HIS OWN DEFENSE.
THE STAND IN HIS OWN DEFENSE. THERE WAS TONS OF TESTIMONY
THERE WAS TONS OF TESTIMONY AGAINST HIM FROM AMONG OTHERS
AGAINST HIM FROM AMONG OTHERS RICK GATES, HIS FORMER DEPUTY,
RICK GATES, HIS FORMER DEPUTY, ALSO FROM ACCOUNTANTS AND
ALSO FROM ACCOUNTANTS AND BOOKKEEPERS.
BOOKKEEPERS. IN THE END THAT JURY IN VIRGINIA
IN THE END THAT JURY IN VIRGINIA CONVICTED MANAFORT ON FIVE
CONVICTED MANAFORT ON FIVE FELONY COUNTS OF TAX FRAUD, TWO
FELONY COUNTS OF TAX FRAUD, TWO FELONY COUNTS OF BANK FRAUD AND
FELONY COUNTS OF BANK FRAUD AND ONE FELONY COUNT RELATED TO HIM
ONE FELONY COUNT RELATED TO HIM NOT REPORTING HIS FOREIGN BANK
NOT REPORTING HIS FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS AND THE BEST NEWS
ACCOUNTS AND THE BEST NEWS MANAFORT GOT THAT DAY IS DESPITE
MANAFORT GOT THAT DAY IS DESPITE THE FACT THAT JURY IN VIRGINIA
THE FACT THAT JURY IN VIRGINIA CONVICTED HIM OF EIGHT FELONIES,
CONVICTED HIM OF EIGHT FELONIES, AS JOHN MITCHELL MIGHT SAY, IT
AS JOHN MITCHELL MIGHT SAY, IT COULD HAVE BEEN WORSE THAT DAY.
COULD HAVE BEEN WORSE THAT DAY. BECAUSE PAUL MANAFORT THAT DAY
BECAUSE PAUL MANAFORT THAT DAY WAS ACTUALLY FACING 18 FELONY
WAS ACTUALLY FACING 18 FELONY CHARGES AT THAT TRIAL AND
CHARGES AT THAT TRIAL AND REMEMBER, OF THE 12 JURORS IN
REMEMBER, OF THE 12 JURORS IN THE MANAFORT TRIAL, THERE WAS
THE MANAFORT TRIAL, THERE WAS JUST ONE HOLDOUT.
JUST ONE HOLDOUT. 11 JURORS WANTED TO CONVICT HIM
11 JURORS WANTED TO CONVICT HIM ON ALL 18 FELONIES BUT ONE JUROR
ON ALL 18 FELONIES BUT ONE JUROR HELD OUT AND SAID NO ON TEN OF
HELD OUT AND SAID NO ON TEN OF THEM.
THEM. AND THAT’S -- IT BEEN A LITTLE
AND THAT’S -- IT BEEN A LITTLE WEIRD TO FIGURE THAT OUT SINCE.
WEIRD TO FIGURE THAT OUT SINCE. THAT ONE JUROR WENT ALONG WITH
THAT ONE JUROR WENT ALONG WITH HIS OR HER FELLOW JURORS ON THE
HIS OR HER FELLOW JURORS ON THE OTHER EIGHT COUNTS AND THERE
OTHER EIGHT COUNTS AND THERE DIDN’T SEEM TO BE THE AMOUNT OF
DIDN’T SEEM TO BE THE AMOUNT OF DIFFERENCE ON THE EVIDENCE PUT
DIFFERENCE ON THE EVIDENCE PUT FORWARD ON TEN COUNTS WHERE THE
FORWARD ON TEN COUNTS WHERE THE JUROR HELD OUT VERSUS EIGHT
JUROR HELD OUT VERSUS EIGHT WHERE THE JUROR WENT ALONG BUT
WHERE THE JUROR WENT ALONG BUT NEVERTHELESS, THAT’S HOW IT
NEVERTHELESS, THAT’S HOW IT WENT.
WENT. JURIES ARE JURIES.
JURIES ARE JURIES. PAUL MANAFORT CAME OUT OF THE
PAUL MANAFORT CAME OUT OF THE TRIAL, LUCKY GUY WITH EIGHT
TRIAL, LUCKY GUY WITH EIGHT FELONY CONVICTIONS TO HIS NAME.
FELONY CONVICTIONS TO HIS NAME. AND WHEN A JURY CAN’T COME TO A
AND WHEN A JURY CAN’T COME TO A UNANIMOUS DECISION, THAT’S
UNANIMOUS DECISION, THAT’S CALLED A HUNG JURY.
CALLED A HUNG JURY. SO HE GOT A HUNG JURY ON THOSE
SO HE GOT A HUNG JURY ON THOSE TEN FELONY COUNTS AND ON THOSE
TEN FELONY COUNTS AND ON THOSE TEN FELONY COUNTS WHERE THERE
TEN FELONY COUNTS WHERE THERE WAS A HUNG JURY, THE PROSECUTORS
WAS A HUNG JURY, THE PROSECUTORS FROM MUELLER’S OFFICE INITIALLY
FROM MUELLER’S OFFICE INITIALLY RESERVED THE RIGHT TO TRY PAUL
RESERVED THE RIGHT TO TRY PAUL MANAFORT AGAIN.
MANAFORT AGAIN. YOU CAN DO THAT IN THE CASE OF A
YOU CAN DO THAT IN THE CASE OF A HUNG JURY.
HUNG JURY. IT’S VERY INTERESTING TO ME AND
IT’S VERY INTERESTING TO ME AND I’VE NEVER QUITE UNDERSTOOD THE
I’VE NEVER QUITE UNDERSTOOD THE STRATEGY BEHIND THIS.
STRATEGY BEHIND THIS. MUELLER’S PROSECUTORS INITIALLY
MUELLER’S PROSECUTORS INITIALLY RESERVE THE RIGHT TO BRING
RESERVE THE RIGHT TO BRING MANAFORT UP ON THE TEN CHARGES
MANAFORT UP ON THE TEN CHARGES WHERE HE HAD THE HUNG JURY AGAIN
WHERE HE HAD THE HUNG JURY AGAIN IF THEY DECIDE THEY WANT TO BUT
IF THEY DECIDE THEY WANT TO BUT NEVER WENT THROUGH WITH THAT
NEVER WENT THROUGH WITH THAT DECISION AND TRIED HIM AGAIN ON
DECISION AND TRIED HIM AGAIN ON THE TEN FELONIES AND TEN ON
THE TEN FELONIES AND TEN ON WHICH THERE WAS A HUNG JURY.
WHICH THERE WAS A HUNG JURY. BUT THEY DID MAKE SURE THAT WHEN
BUT THEY DID MAKE SURE THAT WHEN MANAFORT LATER PLEAD GUILTY IN A
MANAFORT LATER PLEAD GUILTY IN A DIFFERENT FEDERAL COURT IN D.C.,
DIFFERENT FEDERAL COURT IN D.C., HIS GUILTY PLEA AND THAT OTHER
HIS GUILTY PLEA AND THAT OTHER COURT INCLUDED HIM EXPLICITLY
COURT INCLUDED HIM EXPLICITLY CONFESSING THAT YEAH, MAYBE HE
CONFESSING THAT YEAH, MAYBE HE WASN’T CONVICTED ON THOSE TEN
WASN’T CONVICTED ON THOSE TEN OTHER FELONY CHARGES WHERE THERE
OTHER FELONY CHARGES WHERE THERE WAS THAT ONE JUROR WHO WAS THE
WAS THAT ONE JUROR WHO WAS THE HOLDOUT AND MAYBE HADN’T BEEN
HOLDOUT AND MAYBE HADN’T BEEN CONVICTED BUT MANAFORT CONFESSED
CONVICTED BUT MANAFORT CONFESSED IN HIS PLEA DEAL THAT ACTUALLY
IN HIS PLEA DEAL THAT ACTUALLY HE WAS GUILTY OF THOSE TEN
HE WAS GUILTY OF THOSE TEN FELONY CHARGES, TOO.
FELONY CHARGES, TOO. WHY DIDN’T THEY CHARGE HIM WITH
WHY DIDN’T THEY CHARGE HIM WITH THOSE AGAIN?
THOSE AGAIN? WHY HAVE HIM ADMIT THAT HE
WHY HAVE HIM ADMIT THAT HE COMMITTED THOSE CRIMES LATER ON
COMMITTED THOSE CRIMES LATER ON IN A DIFFERENT PROCEEDING WHILE
IN A DIFFERENT PROCEEDING WHILE GIVING UP YOUR RIGHT ON THOSE
GIVING UP YOUR RIGHT ON THOSE CHANGES AGAIN.
CHANGES AGAIN. THAT WAS ONE OF THE AMAZING
THAT WAS ONE OF THE AMAZING CURVEBALLS IN THE CASE.
CURVEBALLS IN THE CASE. MANAFORT PLEADS GUILTY TO 18
MANAFORT PLEADS GUILTY TO 18 FELONIES AND GOES TO TRIAL AND
FELONIES AND GOES TO TRIAL AND THE JURY SQUASHES HIM, GUILTY.
THE JURY SQUASHES HIM, GUILTY. THE OTHER TEN ARE FLOATING
THE OTHER TEN ARE FLOATING AROUND OUT THERE FOR AWHILE
AROUND OUT THERE FOR AWHILE UNTIL ON THE EVE OF HIS NEXT
UNTIL ON THE EVE OF HIS NEXT TRIAL WHERE HE WAS GOING TO BE
TRIAL WHERE HE WAS GOING TO BE TRIED FOR ANOTHER SEVEN
TRIED FOR ANOTHER SEVEN FELONIES, THIS TIME IN D.C., HE
FELONIES, THIS TIME IN D.C., HE SURPRISES EVERYBODY.
SURPRISES EVERYBODY. RIGHT?
RIGHT? HE DOES WHAT APPEARS AT THE
HE DOES WHAT APPEARS AT THE OUTSET TO BE THIS U-TURN AND HE
OUTSET TO BE THIS U-TURN AND HE ADMITS GUILT TO THOSE TEN
ADMITS GUILT TO THOSE TEN CHARGES ON WHICH THERE HAD BEEN
CHARGES ON WHICH THERE HAD BEEN A HUNG JURY IN VIRGINIA AND
A HUNG JURY IN VIRGINIA AND PLEADS GUILTY TO TWO CONSPIRACY
PLEADS GUILTY TO TWO CONSPIRACY CHARGES.
CHARGES. PROSECUTORS AGREE TO DROP THE
PROSECUTORS AGREE TO DROP THE CHARGES AGAINST HIM AND HE SAYS
CHARGES AGAINST HIM AND HE SAYS HE’S GOING TO BECOME A
HE’S GOING TO BECOME A COOPERATING WITNESS, RIGHT?
COOPERATING WITNESS, RIGHT? THAT, YOU KNOW, PART OF THAT
THAT, YOU KNOW, PART OF THAT PLEA -- HE PLEADS GUILTY, HE
PLEA -- HE PLEADS GUILTY, HE SAYS HE’S GOING TO BECOME A
SAYS HE’S GOING TO BECOME A COOPERATOR AND DROP THE OTHER
COOPERATOR AND DROP THE OTHER CHARGES.
CHARGES. HE ADMITS HE WAS GUILTY IN THOSE
HE ADMITS HE WAS GUILTY IN THOSE TEN FELONIES.
TEN FELONIES. THEY DIDN’T BRING HIM UP ON
THEY DIDN’T BRING HIM UP ON TRIAL AGAIN FOR.
TRIAL AGAIN FOR. AND THEY COULD HAVE POTENTIALLY
AND THEY COULD HAVE POTENTIALLY BEEN BROUGHT ON TRIAL AGAIN.
BEEN BROUGHT ON TRIAL AGAIN. THAT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE THE
THAT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE THE START OF A WHOLE NEW PAUL
START OF A WHOLE NEW PAUL MANAFORT.
MANAFORT. ALL RIGHT?
ALL RIGHT? AT THAT MOMENT WHEN THEY DECIDE
AT THAT MOMENT WHEN THEY DECIDE TO PLEAD AND BECOME A COOPERATOR
TO PLEAD AND BECOME A COOPERATOR COOPERATOR, THAT WAS HIM JOINING
COOPERATOR, THAT WAS HIM JOINING TEAM USA.
TEAM USA. THE FIRST TRIAL GUILTY BUT
THE FIRST TRIAL GUILTY BUT BEFORE THE SECOND TRIAL, IT’S A
BEFORE THE SECOND TRIAL, IT’S A NEW PAUL MANAFORT.
NEW PAUL MANAFORT. HE IS JOINING TEAM USA AND
HE IS JOINING TEAM USA AND ADMITTING HIS GUILT.
ADMITTING HIS GUILT. IT TURNS OUT IT DIDN’T WORK OUT
IT TURNS OUT IT DIDN’T WORK OUT THAT WAY, RIGHT?
THAT WAY, RIGHT? THE COOPERATION ASPECT OF
THE COOPERATION ASPECT OF MANAFORT’S CASE IS ANOTHER
MANAFORT’S CASE IS ANOTHER FASCINATING CURVEBALL.
FASCINATING CURVEBALL. I MEAN, BEFORE TONIGHT,
I MEAN, BEFORE TONIGHT, PROSECUTORS HAD NEVER GIVEN ANY
PROSECUTORS HAD NEVER GIVEN ANY SUBSTANTIVE PUBLIC ACCOUNT AS TO
SUBSTANTIVE PUBLIC ACCOUNT AS TO WHAT MANAFORT HAD GIVEN THEM AND
WHAT MANAFORT HAD GIVEN THEM AND HOW HELPFUL HE WAS AS A
HOW HELPFUL HE WAS AS A COOPERATING WITNESS.
COOPERATING WITNESS. TODAY IN COURT THE SPECIAL
TODAY IN COURT THE SPECIAL COUNSEL’S OFFICE WAS AS BLUNT AS
COUNSEL’S OFFICE WAS AS BLUNT AS THEY HAVE BEEN ON THAT SUBJECT
THEY HAVE BEEN ON THAT SUBJECT EVER.
EVER. TONIGHT IN FEDERAL COURT, THEY
TONIGHT IN FEDERAL COURT, THEY TOLD THE JUDGE IN VIRGINIA
TOLD THE JUDGE IN VIRGINIA MANAFORT QUOTE DID NOT PROVIDE
MANAFORT QUOTE DID NOT PROVIDE VALUABLE INFORMATION TO THE
VALUABLE INFORMATION TO THE SPECIAL COUNSEL.
SPECIAL COUNSEL. AFTER MANAFORT’S DEFENSE TEAM
AFTER MANAFORT’S DEFENSE TEAM TRIED TO RAISE THIS ISSUE OF HIM
TRIED TO RAISE THIS ISSUE OF HIM HAVING SPENT TONS OF HOURS IN
HAVING SPENT TONS OF HOURS IN MEETINGS WITH THE SPECIAL
MEETINGS WITH THE SPECIAL COUNSEL AND TRYING TO GET HIM
COUNSEL AND TRYING TO GET HIM CREDIT FROM THE JUDGE AND
CREDIT FROM THE JUDGE AND PROSECUTORS TOLD THE JUDGE
PROSECUTORS TOLD THE JUDGE TONIGHT THE NUMBER OF HOURS PAUL
TONIGHT THE NUMBER OF HOURS PAUL MANAFORT SPENT WITH THE SPECIAL
MANAFORT SPENT WITH THE SPECIAL COUNSEL, THAT NUMBER IS NOT
COUNSEL, THAT NUMBER IS NOT REFLECTIVE OF THE VALUE OF THE
REFLECTIVE OF THE VALUE OF THE INFORMATION WE RECEIVED.
INFORMATION WE RECEIVED. QUOTE, HE TOLD US 50 HOURS OF
QUOTE, HE TOLD US 50 HOURS OF THINGS WE ALREADY KNEW.
THINGS WE ALREADY KNEW. HE DID NOT PROVIDE US
HE DID NOT PROVIDE US INFORMATION THAT WAS USEFUL.
INFORMATION THAT WAS USEFUL. SO THAT’S IMPORTANT FROM THE
SO THAT’S IMPORTANT FROM THE PROSECUTOR’S PERSPECTIVE BECAUSE
PROSECUTOR’S PERSPECTIVE BECAUSE IT MEANS THEY DIDN’T WANT THIS
IT MEANS THEY DIDN’T WANT THIS JUDGE TO GIVE MANAFORT ANY
JUDGE TO GIVE MANAFORT ANY CREDIT FOR COOPERATING BECAUSE
CREDIT FOR COOPERATING BECAUSE COOPERATION WAS USELESS.
COOPERATION WAS USELESS. HE GAVE THEM INFORMATION THEY
HE GAVE THEM INFORMATION THEY HAD AND LIEED TOD TO THEM AND NO
HAD AND LIEED TOD TO THEM AND NO MATTER HOW MUCH TIME HE SPENT,
MATTER HOW MUCH TIME HE SPENT, THEY FOUND HIM WORSE THAN
THEY FOUND HIM WORSE THAN USELESS.
USELESS. THAT’S INTERESTING IN INFORMING
THAT’S INTERESTING IN INFORMING THE JUDGE’S DECISION HOW MUCH
THE JUDGE’S DECISION HOW MUCH TIME TO GIVE MANAFORT BUT FOR
TIME TO GIVE MANAFORT BUT FOR US, WATCHING FROM THE OUTSIDE
US, WATCHING FROM THE OUTSIDE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW THE
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW THE MANAFORT CASE FITS INTO THE
MANAFORT CASE FITS INTO THE LARGER SCANDAL HERE AND INTO
LARGER SCANDAL HERE AND INTO POTENTIAL OTHER CASES AGAINST
POTENTIAL OTHER CASES AGAINST OTHER PEOPLE, THAT WAS ALSO A
OTHER PEOPLE, THAT WAS ALSO A SIGNAL FROM THE SPECIAL
SIGNAL FROM THE SPECIAL COUNSEL’S OFFICE THAT THERE WAS
COUNSEL’S OFFICE THAT THERE WAS NO WAY THEY WOULD BE RELYING ON
NO WAY THEY WOULD BE RELYING ON PAUL MANAFORT AS ANY KIND OF
PAUL MANAFORT AS ANY KIND OF WITNESS AGAINST ANYONE.
WITNESS AGAINST ANYONE. ONCE YOU’RE TELLING THE JUDGE
ONCE YOU’RE TELLING THE JUDGE ONE WAY THIS GUY REPEATEDLY LIES
ONE WAY THIS GUY REPEATEDLY LIES EVEN TO PROSECUTORS WHO HE
EVEN TO PROSECUTORS WHO HE SUPPOSED TO BE HELPING, THAT
SUPPOSED TO BE HELPING, THAT MAKES HIM USELESS AS A POTENTIAL
MAKES HIM USELESS AS A POTENTIAL WITNESS AGAINST ANYONE ELSE IN
WITNESS AGAINST ANYONE ELSE IN ANY OTHER CASE.
ANY OTHER CASE. AND YOU’LL REMEMBER DURING
AND YOU’LL REMEMBER DURING MANAFORT’S TRIAL IN VIRGINIA,
MANAFORT’S TRIAL IN VIRGINIA, THE JUDGE THERE, THE FAMOUSLY
THE JUDGE THERE, THE FAMOUSLY JUDGE, HE BASICALLY YELLED AT
JUDGE, HE BASICALLY YELLED AT THE PROSECUTORS IN COURT, RIGHT?
THE PROSECUTORS IN COURT, RIGHT? IT WAS THIS BIG DRAMATIC MOMENT
IT WAS THIS BIG DRAMATIC MOMENT IN COURT AND HEARING BEFORE THE
IN COURT AND HEARING BEFORE THE TRIAL STARTED, THE JUDGE SAID IN
TRIAL STARTED, THE JUDGE SAID IN OPEN COURT YOU DON’T REALLY CARE
OPEN COURT YOU DON’T REALLY CARE ABOUT MR. MANAFORT’S BANK FRAUD,
ABOUT MR. MANAFORT’S BANK FRAUD, YOU CAN GIVE INFORMATION THAT
YOU CAN GIVE INFORMATION THAT WOULD REFLECT ON MR. TRUMP AND
WOULD REFLECT ON MR. TRUMP AND LEAD TO HIS PROSECUTION OR
LEAD TO HIS PROSECUTION OR IMPEACHMENT.
IMPEACHMENT. YOU DON’T CARE ABOUT MANAFORT.
YOU DON’T CARE ABOUT MANAFORT. YOU’RE USING HIM TO GET HIS
YOU’RE USING HIM TO GET HIS TESTIMONY TO GET EVIDENCE AND
TESTIMONY TO GET EVIDENCE AND INFORMATION HE CAN GIVE YOU TO
INFORMATION HE CAN GIVE YOU TO GET BIGGER FISH, TO GO GET THE
GET BIGGER FISH, TO GO GET THE PRESIDENT.
PRESIDENT. AND HE SORT OF REAMED THE
AND HE SORT OF REAMED THE PROSECUTORS OUT FOR THAT AND
PROSECUTORS OUT FOR THAT AND SCOLDED THEM, MOCKED THEM IN THE
SCOLDED THEM, MOCKED THEM IN THE COURT BECAUSE HE COULD TELL THAT
COURT BECAUSE HE COULD TELL THAT WAS THEIR REAL INTENT.
WAS THEIR REAL INTENT. THE PROSECUTORS FUNDAMENTALLY
THE PROSECUTORS FUNDAMENTALLY REBUTTED THAT.
REBUTTED THAT. RIGHT?
RIGHT? THEY REBUTTED THAT OUTBURST FROM
THEY REBUTTED THAT OUTBURST FROM THE JUDGE TONIGHT WHEN THEY CAME
THE JUDGE TONIGHT WHEN THEY CAME TO HIM AT PAUL MANAFORT’S
TO HIM AT PAUL MANAFORT’S SENTENCING AND SAID THIS GUY, WE
SENTENCING AND SAID THIS GUY, WE CAN’T USE HIM FOR ANYTHING.
CAN’T USE HIM FOR ANYTHING. WE CAN’T USE HIM AGAINST ANYONE.
WE CAN’T USE HIM AGAINST ANYONE. WE CAN’T USE HIM FOR ANY OTHER
WE CAN’T USE HIM FOR ANY OTHER CASE.
CASE. ALL HE DOES IS LIE.
ALL HE DOES IS LIE. HE’S POINTLESS AS A WITNESS.
HE’S POINTLESS AS A WITNESS. HE’S OF NO HELP.
HE’S OF NO HELP. THIS CASE IS JUST ABOUT HIS
THIS CASE IS JUST ABOUT HIS CRIMES AND THAT’S IT.
CRIMES AND THAT’S IT. THIS JUDGE, THOUGH, JUDGE ELLIS
THIS JUDGE, THOUGH, JUDGE ELLIS IN VIRGINIA WAS SUPER AGGRESSIVE
IN VIRGINIA WAS SUPER AGGRESSIVE WITH THE PROSECUTORS THROUGHOUT
WITH THE PROSECUTORS THROUGHOUT THE MANAFORT PROCEEDINGS AND
THE MANAFORT PROCEEDINGS AND WHEN IT CAME TIME TO SENTENCE
WHEN IT CAME TIME TO SENTENCE MANAFORT, THE BALL WAS
MANAFORT, THE BALL WAS COMPLETELY IN THAT JUDGE’S
COMPLETELY IN THAT JUDGE’S COURT.
COURT. JUDGES HAVE FREEDOM WITH
JUDGES HAVE FREEDOM WITH SENTENCING IN FEDERAL COURT.
SENTENCING IN FEDERAL COURT. THE SENTENCING GUIDELINES
THE SENTENCING GUIDELINES SPELLED OUT MANAFORT SHOULD GET
SPELLED OUT MANAFORT SHOULD GET 19 TO 24 YEARS IN PRISON BUT
19 TO 24 YEARS IN PRISON BUT THOSE GUIDELINES ARE MERELY A
THOSE GUIDELINES ARE MERELY A GUIDE.
GUIDE. JUDGES ARE FREE TO DEPART FROM
JUDGES ARE FREE TO DEPART FROM THOSE GUIDELINES IN EITHER
THOSE GUIDELINES IN EITHER DIRECTION AS FAR AS THEY WANT
DIRECTION AS FAR AS THEY WANT TO.
TO. THE ONLY THING A JUDGE CAN’T DO
THE ONLY THING A JUDGE CAN’T DO IS EXCEED THE STATUTORY MINIMUM
IS EXCEED THE STATUTORY MINIMUM SENTENCE TO FIND A BY LAW FOR
SENTENCE TO FIND A BY LAW FOR THE CRIMES FOR WHICH MANAFORT
THE CRIMES FOR WHICH MANAFORT WAS CONVICTED.
WAS CONVICTED. WHEN IT CAME TIME TO DECIDE
WHEN IT CAME TIME TO DECIDE TONIGHT HOW MUCH TIME MANAFORT
TONIGHT HOW MUCH TIME MANAFORT WOULD ACTUALLY SPEND IN PRISON,
WOULD ACTUALLY SPEND IN PRISON, THE JUDGE WENT WAY BELOW THAT
THE JUDGE WENT WAY BELOW THAT SENTENCING GUIDELINES RANGE.
SENTENCING GUIDELINES RANGE. HE DIDN’T GO 19 TO 24 YEARS.
HE DIDN’T GO 19 TO 24 YEARS. HE GAVE HIM A LITTLE LESS THAN
HE GAVE HIM A LITTLE LESS THAN FOUR YEARS.
FOUR YEARS. AND HE TOOK TIME TO CRITICIZE
AND HE TOOK TIME TO CRITICIZE THOSE SENTENCING GUIDELINES IN
THOSE SENTENCING GUIDELINES IN OPEN COURT.
OPEN COURT. THE JUDGE SAID THESE GUIDELINES
THE JUDGE SAID THESE GUIDELINES ARE QUITE HIGH.
ARE QUITE HIGH. HE SAID QUOTE, I THINK THIS
HE SAID QUOTE, I THINK THIS SENTENCING RANGE IS EXCESSIVE.
SENTENCING RANGE IS EXCESSIVE. PAUL MANAFORT HAS ALREADY SPENT
PAUL MANAFORT HAS ALREADY SPENT NINE MONTHS IN THAT FEDERAL
NINE MONTHS IN THAT FEDERAL LOCKUP IN VIRGINIA.
LOCKUP IN VIRGINIA. YOU’LL REMEMBER HE ENDED UP IN
YOU’LL REMEMBER HE ENDED UP IN JAIL WHEN HE HAD HIS BAIL
JAIL WHEN HE HAD HIS BAIL REVOKED AND HAD TO GO TO FEDERAL
REVOKED AND HAD TO GO TO FEDERAL LOCKUP AWAITING TRIAL AND DURING
LOCKUP AWAITING TRIAL AND DURING HIS TRIAL AND UNTIL TODAY,
HIS TRIAL AND UNTIL TODAY, AWAITING SENTENCING.
AWAITING SENTENCING. SINCE HE’S BEEN IN JAIL ALL THIS
SINCE HE’S BEEN IN JAIL ALL THIS TIME, ALL THESE NINE MONTHS, HIS
TIME, ALL THESE NINE MONTHS, HIS DEFENSE TEAM TOLD THE COURT HE’S
DEFENSE TEAM TOLD THE COURT HE’S REALLY FALLEN APART PHYSICALLY.
REALLY FALLEN APART PHYSICALLY. MANAFORT’S DEFENSE TEAM TOLD THE
MANAFORT’S DEFENSE TEAM TOLD THE COURT MANAFORT NOW HAS SEVERE
COURT MANAFORT NOW HAS SEVERE GOUT, HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE, HIGH
GOUT, HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE, HIGH CHOLESTEROL, SAY
CHOLESTEROL, SAY CHOLESTEROL SORE
CHOLESTEROL SORE CHOLESTEROL ANXIETY, PANIC
CHOLESTEROL ANXIETY, PANIC ATTACKS AND CLAUSTROPHOBIA AND
ATTACKS AND CLAUSTROPHOBIA AND WILL GET CREDIT AGAINST HIS
WILL GET CREDIT AGAINST HIS SENTENCE.
SENTENCE. THIS FOUR-YEAR SENTENCE HE GOT,
THIS FOUR-YEAR SENTENCE HE GOT, HE’LL GET CREDIT FOR THE NINE
HE’LL GET CREDIT FOR THE NINE MONTHS THAT HE’S ALREADY SERVED
MONTHS THAT HE’S ALREADY SERVED IN THAT FEDERAL LOCKUP BUT HIS
IN THAT FEDERAL LOCKUP BUT HIS FATE AT THIS POINT REALLY IS
FATE AT THIS POINT REALLY IS STILL AN OPEN QUESTION.
STILL AN OPEN QUESTION. MANAFORT’S NEXT STOP WILL BE THE
MANAFORT’S NEXT STOP WILL BE THE FEDERAL COURTHOUSE IN D.C.
FEDERAL COURTHOUSE IN D.C. HE’S DUE TO BE SENTENCED IN D.C.
HE’S DUE TO BE SENTENCED IN D.C. NEXT WEDNESDAY FOR MORE FELONIES
NEXT WEDNESDAY FOR MORE FELONIES FOR THOSE TWO FELONIES THAT HE
FOR THOSE TWO FELONIES THAT HE PLED GUILTY TO AND THAT WILL BE
PLED GUILTY TO AND THAT WILL BE A DIFFERENT JUDGE WHO HAS BEEN
A DIFFERENT JUDGE WHO HAS BEEN THROUGH A DIFFERENT PROCEEDING
THROUGH A DIFFERENT PROCEEDING WITH HIM.
WITH HIM. FOR THAT SENTENCING NEXT WEEK.
FOR THAT SENTENCING NEXT WEEK. THE MAXIMUM SENTENCE THAT D.C.
THE MAXIMUM SENTENCE THAT D.C. HAD TO HAND DOWN WOULD BE TEN
HAD TO HAND DOWN WOULD BE TEN YEARS.
YEARS. BUT THAT JUDGE NEXT WEEK HAS THE
BUT THAT JUDGE NEXT WEEK HAS THE BENEFIT OF KNOWING WHAT
BENEFIT OF KNOWING WHAT MANAFORT’S SENTENCE WAS TONIGHT.
MANAFORT’S SENTENCE WAS TONIGHT. AMY BERMAN JACKSON WILL NOT.
AMY BERMAN JACKSON WILL NOT. SHE WILL ALSO BE DECIDE SHOULD
SHE WILL ALSO BE DECIDE SHOULD RUN CONCURRENTLY OR BE
RUN CONCURRENTLY OR BE CONSECUTIVE.
CONSECUTIVE. SHE COULD GIVE HIM UP TO TEN
SHE COULD GIVE HIM UP TO TEN YEARS.
YEARS. LET’S SAY SHE GIVES HIM FIVE.
LET’S SAY SHE GIVES HIM FIVE. IF THEY ARE CONCURRENTLY, HE’LL
IF THEY ARE CONCURRENTLY, HE’LL START BOTH SENTENCES DAY ONE AND
START BOTH SENTENCES DAY ONE AND END UP SERVING A TOTAL OF FIVE
END UP SERVING A TOTAL OF FIVE YEARS IN PRISON BECAUSE THE FIVE
YEARS IN PRISON BECAUSE THE FIVE AND FOUR WILL RUN AT THE SAME
AND FOUR WILL RUN AT THE SAME TIME BUT JUDGES, IF THEY WANT TO
TIME BUT JUDGES, IF THEY WANT TO BE HARSHER, THEY HAVE THE
BE HARSHER, THEY HAVE THE ABILITY TO SENTENCE YOU TO SERVE
ABILITY TO SENTENCE YOU TO SERVE YOUR OTHER SENTENCE FIRST.
YOUR OTHER SENTENCE FIRST. RIGHT?
RIGHT? THEN WHEN YOU’RE DONE WITH THAT
THEN WHEN YOU’RE DONE WITH THAT ONE, YOU CAN START THIS NEXT
ONE, YOU CAN START THIS NEXT SENTENCE THAT I’M GOING TO GIVE
SENTENCE THAT I’M GOING TO GIVE YOU.
YOU. YOU CAN START THE NEXT SENTENCE
YOU CAN START THE NEXT SENTENCE THEREAFTER.
THEREAFTER. IF THAT HAPPENED WITH THE FOUR
IF THAT HAPPENED WITH THE FOUR YEARS HE GOT IN VIRGINIA
YEARS HE GOT IN VIRGINIA TONIGHT, LET’S SAY HE GOT FIVE
TONIGHT, LET’S SAY HE GOT FIVE YEARS NEXT WEEK IN D.C.
YEARS NEXT WEEK IN D.C. THAT WOULD MEAN HE WOULD BE
THAT WOULD MEAN HE WOULD BE LOOKING AT NINE-YEAR SENTENCE IN
LOOKING AT NINE-YEAR SENTENCE IN TOTAL.
TOTAL. IF THE JUDGE NEXT WEEK
IF THE JUDGE NEXT WEEK COMPLETELY THROWS THE BOOK AT
COMPLETELY THROWS THE BOOK AT MANAFORT, THAT WOULD BE A
MANAFORT, THAT WOULD BE A TEN-YEAR SENTENCE FROM THAT D.C.
TEN-YEAR SENTENCE FROM THAT D.C. JUDGE NEXT WEEK.
JUDGE NEXT WEEK. IF SHE GIVES HIM THE MAXIMUM
IF SHE GIVES HIM THE MAXIMUM THAT SHE COULD GIVE HIM, TEN
THAT SHE COULD GIVE HIM, TEN YEARS AND SHE HAS IT RUN
YEARS AND SHE HAS IT RUN CONSECUTIVELY, THE TOTAL MAXIMUM
CONSECUTIVELY, THE TOTAL MAXIMUM MANAFORT COULD LOOK AT WOULD BE
MANAFORT COULD LOOK AT WOULD BE UNDER 14 YEARS IN FEDERAL
UNDER 14 YEARS IN FEDERAL PRISON.
PRISON. TO BE CLEAR, HE COULD GET
TO BE CLEAR, HE COULD GET ANYTHING UNDER THAT INCLUDING NO
ANYTHING UNDER THAT INCLUDING NO ADDITIONAL TIME BEYOND THE
ADDITIONAL TIME BEYOND THE SENTENCE TONIGHT BUT THE MAX
SENTENCE TONIGHT BUT THE MAX PRISON TIME HE COULD BE LOOKING
PRISON TIME HE COULD BE LOOKING AT AGAIN JUST SHY OF 14 YEARS.
AT AGAIN JUST SHY OF 14 YEARS. SO HISTORIC DAY.
SO HISTORIC DAY. WE’VE GOT THIS ONE BOTTOM LINE,
WE’VE GOT THIS ONE BOTTOM LINE, RIGHT?
RIGHT? THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
THE PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN FOR THE SITTING
CHAIRMAN FOR THE SITTING PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES JUST GOT A FOUR-YEAR FEDERAL
JUST GOT A FOUR-YEAR FEDERAL PRISON SENTENCE.
PRISON SENTENCE. BUT ANOTHER SHOE IS ABOUT TO
BUT ANOTHER SHOE IS ABOUT TO DROP FOR THAT CAMPAIGN CHAIR IN
DROP FOR THAT CAMPAIGN CHAIR IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS THAT WILL MAKE
THE NEXT FEW DAYS THAT WILL MAKE THE DIFFERENCE IN TERMS OF HIS
THE DIFFERENCE IN TERMS OF HIS ULTIMATE FATE.
ULTIMATE FATE. WHEN HIS DEFENSE LAWYER WAS
WHEN HIS DEFENSE LAWYER WAS ASKED OUTSIDE OF THE COURTHOUSE
ASKED OUTSIDE OF THE COURTHOUSE IF HE THOUGHT THIS FOUR-YEAR
IF HE THOUGHT THIS FOUR-YEAR PRISON SENTENCE WAS CLEAR,
PRISON SENTENCE WAS CLEAR, MANAFORT’S LAWYER WOULDN’T
MANAFORT’S LAWYER WOULDN’T ANSWER THAT UNTIL THEY GET THE
ANSWER THAT UNTIL THEY GET THE OTHER SENTENCE, TOO.
OTHER SENTENCE, TOO. >> Reporter: WHAT DO YOU THINK
>> Reporter: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE SENTENCE NEXT WEEK?
ABOUT THE SENTENCE NEXT WEEK? >> WE LOOK FORWARD TO IT.
>> WE LOOK FORWARD TO IT. >> DO YOU THINK THE SENTENCE IS
>> DO YOU THINK THE SENTENCE IS FAIR?
FAIR? >> I WILL SPEAK TO THAT AFTER
>> I WILL SPEAK TO THAT AFTER WE’RE DONE IN D.C.
WE’RE DONE IN D.C. >> DO YOU HAVE ANY COMMENT ON
>> DO YOU HAVE ANY COMMENT ON THE SENTENCE HANDED DOWN?
THE SENTENCE HANDED DOWN? >> DO YOU HAVE ANY COMMENT ON
THE SENTENCE HANDED DOWN? NO.
NO. SO FOR PAUL MANAFORT, ONE
SO FOR PAUL MANAFORT, ONE SENTENCE DOWN, ANOTHER TO COME
SENTENCE DOWN, ANOTHER TO COME IN LESS THAN A WEEK.
IN LESS THAN A WEEK. I HAVE LOTS OF QUESTIONS ABOUT
I HAVE LOTS OF QUESTIONS ABOUT ALL OF THESE THINGS INCLUDING
ALL OF THESE THINGS INCLUDING WHAT IT WAS LIKE IN THE COURT
WHAT IT WAS LIKE IN THE COURT WHILE IT WAS HAPPENING TODAY BUT
WHILE IT WAS HAPPENING TODAY BUT BEFORE WE BRING IN FOLKS TO
BEFORE WE BRING IN FOLKS TO ANSWER THOSE QUESTIONS, LET ME
ANSWER THOSE QUESTIONS, LET ME INTERJECT ONE LAST THING INTO
INTERJECT ONE LAST THING INTO THIS CONVERSATION AND STORY
THIS CONVERSATION AND STORY BEFORE WE BRING IN PEOPLE WHO
BEFORE WE BRING IN PEOPLE WHO ACTUALLY KNOW THESE THINGS AND
ACTUALLY KNOW THESE THINGS AND CAN GIVE US PERSPECTIVE HERE.
CAN GIVE US PERSPECTIVE HERE. HERE IS THE ONE LAST THING.
HERE IS THE ONE LAST THING. AND IT’S ACTUALLY THE OTHER
AND IT’S ACTUALLY THE OTHER THING PAUL MANAFORT’S DEFENSE
THING PAUL MANAFORT’S DEFENSE LAWYER SAID TONIGHT ON THE
LAWYER SAID TONIGHT ON THE COURTHOUSE STEPS AFTER THIS
COURTHOUSE STEPS AFTER THIS SENTENCING.
SENTENCING. AND IT WAS I GUESS IT SHOULDN’T
AND IT WAS I GUESS IT SHOULDN’T BE A SURPRISE TO ME AT THIS
BE A SURPRISE TO ME AT THIS POINT BUT IT WAS A SURPRISE WHEN
POINT BUT IT WAS A SURPRISE WHEN HE GOT UP THERE AND SAID NO
HE GOT UP THERE AND SAID NO COLLUSION, NO COLLUSION, NO
COLLUSION, NO COLLUSION, NO COLLUSION.
COLLUSION. >> GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE.
>> GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE. AS YOU HEARD IN COURT TODAY, MR.
AS YOU HEARD IN COURT TODAY, MR. MANAFORT FINALLY GOT TO SPEAK
MANAFORT FINALLY GOT TO SPEAK FOR HIMSELF.
FOR HIMSELF. HE MADE CLEAR HE ACCEPTS
HE MADE CLEAR HE ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR HIS CONDUCT,
RESPONSIBILITY FOR HIS CONDUCT, AND I THINK MOST IMPORTANTLY,
AND I THINK MOST IMPORTANTLY, WHAT YOU SAW TODAY IS THE SAME
WHAT YOU SAW TODAY IS THE SAME THING THAT WE HAD SAID FROM DAY
THING THAT WE HAD SAID FROM DAY ONE, THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO
ONE, THERE IS ABSOLUTELY NO EVIDENCE THAT PAUL MANAFORT WAS
EVIDENCE THAT PAUL MANAFORT WAS INVOLVED WITH ANY COLLUSION WITH
INVOLVED WITH ANY COLLUSION WITH ANY GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL FROM
ANY GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL FROM RUSSIA.
RUSSIA. THANK YOU, EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU, EVERYBODY. >> WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE
>> WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE SENTENCE?
SENTENCE? >> WAS HE INVOLVED WITH
>> WAS HE INVOLVED WITH COLLUSION WITH ANYBODY ELSE IN
COLLUSION WITH ANYBODY ELSE IN RUSSIA WHO WASN’T A GOVERNMENT
RUSSIA WHO WASN’T A GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL?
OFFICIAL? ALSO, WHY BRING THAT UP?
ALSO, WHY BRING THAT UP? AND WHY IS THAT THE MOST
AND WHY IS THAT THE MOST IMPORTANT THING?
IMPORTANT THING? I THINK MOST IMPORTANT, WHAT YOU
I THINK MOST IMPORTANT, WHAT YOU SAW TODAY, IS THAT THE MOST
SAW TODAY, IS THAT THE MOST IMPORTANT THING?
IMPORTANT THING? NOT ONLY WAS MANAFORT NOT
NOT ONLY WAS MANAFORT NOT CHARGED WITH ANYTHING HAVE TO DO
CHARGED WITH ANYTHING HAVE TO DO WITH RUSH SLASIA IN THIS CASE, T
WITH RUSH SLASIA IN THIS CASE, T WAS THE TRIAL JUDGE ELLIS BANNED
WAS THE TRIAL JUDGE ELLIS BANNED ANY DISCUSSION OF RUSSIA
ANY DISCUSSION OF RUSSIA COLLUSION AT ALL IN HIS
COLLUSION AT ALL IN HIS COURTROOM.
COURTROOM. SO NOBODY COULD HAVE TRIED TO
SO NOBODY COULD HAVE TRIED TO PROVE ANYTHING LIKE THAT AGAINST
PROVE ANYTHING LIKE THAT AGAINST MANAFORT IN THIS TRIAL IN
MANAFORT IN THIS TRIAL IN VIRGINIA.
VIRGINIA. NO COLLUSION, NO COLLUSION
NO COLLUSION, NO COLLUSION PUBLIC ARGUMENTS FROM THE
PUBLIC ARGUMENTS FROM THE MANAFORT DEFENSE TEAM WE’VE BEEN
MANAFORT DEFENSE TEAM WE’VE BEEN SEEING INCREASINGLY FROM THEM IN
SEEING INCREASINGLY FROM THEM IN PUBLIC FILINGS AND TODAY IN THE
PUBLIC FILINGS AND TODAY IN THE COURTHOUSE STEPS AS MANAFORT HAS
COURTHOUSE STEPS AS MANAFORT HAS COME TO THE END OF THE ROPE,
COME TO THE END OF THE ROPE, THESE ARGUMENTS ARE ABSOLUTELY
THESE ARGUMENTS ARE ABSOLUTELY OUTSIDE THE FOUR CORNERS SO WHY
OUTSIDE THE FOUR CORNERS SO WHY DO THEY KEEP BRINGING THAT UP
DO THEY KEEP BRINGING THAT UP AND WHY WOULD THAT BE THE MOST
AND WHY WOULD THAT BE THE MOST IMPORTANT PART ABOUT THIS CASE
IMPORTANT PART ABOUT THIS CASE WHERE THE JUDGE RULED THAT THAT
WHERE THE JUDGE RULED THAT THAT COULD NEVER BE DISCUSSED IN THIS
COULD NEVER BE DISCUSSED IN THIS CASE?
CASE? WHY KEEP GOING BACK TO THAT
WHY KEEP GOING BACK TO THAT ISSUE?
ISSUE? ESPECIALLY WHEN THERE ARE IN
ESPECIALLY WHEN THERE ARE IN FACT COLLUSION QUESTIONS THAT
FACT COLLUSION QUESTIONS THAT REMAIN ABOUT PAUL MANAFORT’S
REMAIN ABOUT PAUL MANAFORT’S CASE.
CASE. YOU MIGHT REMEMBER THERE WAS AN
YOU MIGHT REMEMBER THERE WAS AN ACCIDENTALLY UNREDACTED FILING
ACCIDENTALLY UNREDACTED FILING PAUL MANAFORT’S TEAM SUBMITTED
PAUL MANAFORT’S TEAM SUBMITTED IN D.C. A FEW WEEKS AGO AND IN
IN D.C. A FEW WEEKS AGO AND IN THAT FILING WE LEARNED THAT ONE
THAT FILING WE LEARNED THAT ONE OF THE THINGS MANAFORT LIED TO
OF THE THINGS MANAFORT LIED TO PROSECUTORS ABOUT AND HE WAS
PROSECUTORS ABOUT AND HE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE COOPERATING WITH
SUPPOSED TO BE COOPERATING WITH THEM WAS THE NUMBER OF MEETINGS
THEM WAS THE NUMBER OF MEETINGS HE HAD WITH A RUSSIAN GUY WHO
HE HAD WITH A RUSSIAN GUY WHO PROSECUTORS SAY IS LINKED TO
PROSECUTORS SAY IS LINKED TO RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE.
RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE. SPECIFICALLY, MANAFORT ALSO LIED
SPECIFICALLY, MANAFORT ALSO LIED TO PROSECUTORS ABOUT PROVIDING
TO PROSECUTORS ABOUT PROVIDING TRUMP CAMPAIGN POLLING DATA TO
TRUMP CAMPAIGN POLLING DATA TO THAT RUSSIAN GUY WHO PROSECUTORS
THAT RUSSIAN GUY WHO PROSECUTORS SAY IS LINKED TO RUSSIAN
SAY IS LINKED TO RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE.
INTELLIGENCE. THAT WAS ALSO SUPPOSED TO BE
THAT WAS ALSO SUPPOSED TO BE UNDER SEAL BUT ACCIDENTLY PEAKED
UNDER SEAL BUT ACCIDENTLY PEAKED OUT BECAUSE THEY SCREWED UP A
OUT BECAUSE THEY SCREWED UP A REDACTION AND EVEN THOUGH WE’VE
REDACTION AND EVEN THOUGH WE’VE NEVER SEEN CHARGES ON THAT
NEVER SEEN CHARGES ON THAT SUBJECT, RIGHT, WE HAVE NEVER
SUBJECT, RIGHT, WE HAVE NEVER SEEN ANY CRIMINAL CHARGES ABOUT
SEEN ANY CRIMINAL CHARGES ABOUT THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN GIVING
THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN GIVING INTERNAL SECRET POLLING DATA TO
INTERNAL SECRET POLLING DATA TO RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE, YOU KNOW,
RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE, YOU KNOW, AS POTENTIALLY RELATED TO
AS POTENTIALLY RELATED TO RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE INTERFERING
RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE INTERFERING IN THE ELECTION, THAT REFERENCE
IN THE ELECTION, THAT REFERENCE IN MANAFORT’S CASE AND THE FACT
IN MANAFORT’S CASE AND THE FACT THAT IT WAS SUPPOSED TO STAY
THAT IT WAS SUPPOSED TO STAY REDACTED, IT DOES RAISE
REDACTED, IT DOES RAISE QUESTIONS ABOUT MANAFORT’S
QUESTIONS ABOUT MANAFORT’S INVOLVEMENT WITH RUSSIAN
INVOLVEMENT WITH RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE DURING THE
INTELLIGENCE DURING THE CAMPAIGN.
CAMPAIGN. AS "THE NEW YORK TIMES" SAID
AS "THE NEW YORK TIMES" SAID TODAY, THE SPECIAL COUNSEL’S
TODAY, THE SPECIAL COUNSEL’S OFFICE HAD WANTED THAT
OFFICE HAD WANTED THAT INFORMATION KEPT OUT OF THE
INFORMATION KEPT OUT OF THE PUBLIC EYE TO PROTECT AN OPEN
PUBLIC EYE TO PROTECT AN OPEN INVESTIGATION.
INVESTIGATION. WHAT OPEN INVESTIGATION?
WHAT OPEN INVESTIGATION? QUOTE, IT REMAINS UNCLEAR WHY
QUOTE, IT REMAINS UNCLEAR WHY MR. KILIMNIK WOULD WANT SUCH
MR. KILIMNIK WOULD WANT SUCH POLLING DATA.
POLLING DATA. ALSO, IT REMAINS UNCLEAR WHAT HE
ALSO, IT REMAINS UNCLEAR WHAT HE DID WITH IT.
DID WITH IT. AND WHETHER THE DATA TRANSFER
AND WHETHER THE DATA TRANSFER MIGHT HAVE HELPED INFORM THE
MIGHT HAVE HELPED INFORM THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT’S COVERT
RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT’S COVERT OPERATION TO INTERFERE WITH THE
OPERATION TO INTERFERE WITH THE AMERICAN ELECTION.
AMERICAN ELECTION. SO THAT’S -- I MEAN, MANAFORT’S
SO THAT’S -- I MEAN, MANAFORT’S FATE STILL TO BE SETTLED IN
FATE STILL TO BE SETTLED IN TERMS OF NEXT WEEK’S SENTENCE
TERMS OF NEXT WEEK’S SENTENCE BUT IN TERMS OF THE STORY AND
BUT IN TERMS OF THE STORY AND SCANDAL AND HOW MANAFORT FITS
SCANDAL AND HOW MANAFORT FITS INTO THIS, THE ONE BIG DANGLING
INTO THIS, THE ONE BIG DANGLING THREAD HERE IS NOT WHAT CAN
THREAD HERE IS NOT WHAT CAN MANAFORT TELL PROSECUTORS ABOUT
MANAFORT TELL PROSECUTORS ABOUT THE PRESIDENT OR ANYBODY ELSE,
THE PRESIDENT OR ANYBODY ELSE, THEY AREN’T INTERESTED IN
THEY AREN’T INTERESTED IN ANYTHING HE HAS TO SAY.
ANYTHING HE HAS TO SAY. THEY THINK HE’S A LIAR.
THEY THINK HE’S A LIAR. THEY DON’T THINK HE’S USEFUL.
THEY DON’T THINK HE’S USEFUL. THE BIG DANGLING THREAD HERE
THE BIG DANGLING THREAD HERE WITH MANAFORT NOW LEARNING HIS
WITH MANAFORT NOW LEARNING HIS FATE, NEXT TIME WE’LL KNOW IF
FATE, NEXT TIME WE’LL KNOW IF HE’LL SPEND MORE TIME IN PRISON
HE’LL SPEND MORE TIME IN PRISON HE WAS SENTENCED TO TONIGHT,
HE WAS SENTENCED TO TONIGHT, MANAFORT’S FATE BECOMING CLEAR
MANAFORT’S FATE BECOMING CLEAR AND HIS CASE ENDING, THERE IS
AND HIS CASE ENDING, THERE IS THIS THREAD, THERE ARE UNCHARGED
THIS THREAD, THERE ARE UNCHARGED ALLEGATIONS DESCRIBED IN THE
ALLEGATIONS DESCRIBED IN THE MANAFORT CASE ABOUT ALLEGED
MANAFORT CASE ABOUT ALLEGED CONTACTS AND THE PROVISION OF
CONTACTS AND THE PROVISION OF SECRET DATA FROM THE HIGHEST
SECRET DATA FROM THE HIGHEST RANKS OF THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN TO
RANKS OF THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN TO RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE WHILE
RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE WHILE RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE WAS
RUSSIAN INTELLIGENCE WAS INTERFERING IN THE ELECTION TO
INTERFERING IN THE ELECTION TO HELP TRUMP WIN.
HELP TRUMP WIN. PROSECUTORS TOLD THE JUDGE IN
PROSECUTORS TOLD THE JUDGE IN MANAFORT’S CASE IN D.C. THAT
MANAFORT’S CASE IN D.C. THAT ALLEGATION, THAT THING HE LIED
ALLEGATION, THAT THING HE LIED TO PROFESSION CUE
TO PROFESSION CUE TO PROSECUTORS GOES TO THE HEART
TO PROSECUTORS GOES TO THE HEART OF THE INVESTIGATION BUT THOSE
OF THE INVESTIGATION BUT THOSE CHARGES AREN’T BEING
CHARGES AREN’T BEING ADJUDICATED.
ADJUDICATED. HIS CASE IS COMING TO AN END IN
HIS CASE IS COMING TO AN END IN TWO FEDERAL JURISDICTIONS SO WHY
TWO FEDERAL JURISDICTIONS SO WHY IS THE GOVERNMENT REDAKTFACTING
IS THE GOVERNMENT REDAKTFACTING ALLEGATION AND TRYING TO KEEP
ALLEGATION AND TRYING TO KEEP ALL REFERENCES TO THOSE
ALL REFERENCES TO THOSE ALLEGATIONS UNDER SEAL IN HIS
ALLEGATIONS UNDER SEAL IN HIS CASE?
CASE? THE GOVERNMENT SAYS THEY WANTED
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS THEY WANTED THOSE REDACTIONS FROM THOSE
THOSE REDACTIONS FROM THOSE DOCUMENTS IN ORDER TO PROTECT ON
DOCUMENTS IN ORDER TO PROTECT ON GOING INVESTIGATIONS.
GOING INVESTIGATIONS. WHAT ON GOING INVESTIGATIONS?
WHAT ON GOING INVESTIGATIONS? IF THEY AREN’T USING THOSE
IF THEY AREN’T USING THOSE ALLEGATIONS IN THE CASE AGAINST
ALLEGATIONS IN THE CASE AGAINST PAUL MANAFORT, WHERE ARE THEY
PAUL MANAFORT, WHERE ARE THEY USING THOSE ALLEGATIONS AND IN
USING THOSE ALLEGATIONS AND IN WHAT CASE AGAINST WHO?
WHAT CASE AGAINST WHO? JOINING US NOW IS JOSH SENIOR
JOINING US NOW IS JOSH SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CONTRIBUTOR FOR
LEGAL AFFAIRS CONTRIBUTOR FOR POLL
POLL POLL
POLL POLITICO.COM.
POLITICO.COM. BIG PICTURE, WHAT DID YOU THINK
BIG PICTURE, WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THIS SENTENCING HEARING TODAY
OF THIS SENTENCING HEARING TODAY AND THE BEHAVIOR OF THE JUDGE
AND THE BEHAVIOR OF THE JUDGE AND DEFENDANT, MR. MANAFORT,
AND DEFENDANT, MR. MANAFORT, WHAT WAS YOUR BIGGEST
WHAT WAS YOUR BIGGEST IMPRESSION?
IMPRESSION? >> THE TOP LINE, OF COURSE, IS
>> THE TOP LINE, OF COURSE, IS THE TAKE AWAY OF IT BEING JUST A
THE TAKE AWAY OF IT BEING JUST A 47-MONTH SENTENCE I WOULD SAY
47-MONTH SENTENCE I WOULD SAY THE CONSENSUS OF MOST OF THE
THE CONSENSUS OF MOST OF THE PEOPLE I WAS SITTING AMONGST IN
PEOPLE I WAS SITTING AMONGST IN THE ROOM, LAWYERS, OBSERVERS,
THE ROOM, LAWYERS, OBSERVERS, JOURNALIST IS WE WOULD SEE
JOURNALIST IS WE WOULD SEE SOMEWHERE BETWEEN SEVEN OR TEN
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN SEVEN OR TEN OR 12 YEARS, MAYBE NOT UP IN
OR 12 YEARS, MAYBE NOT UP IN THAT GUIDELINES RANGE OF 20 TO
THAT GUIDELINES RANGE OF 20 TO 24 YEARS BUT A SUBSTANTIAL
24 YEARS BUT A SUBSTANTIAL SENTENCE NONETHELESS SO FOUR IS
SENTENCE NONETHELESS SO FOUR IS A LOT LIGHTER, FOUR IS LIGHTER
A LOT LIGHTER, FOUR IS LIGHTER THAN MANY PEOPLE WERE EXPECTING.
THAN MANY PEOPLE WERE EXPECTING. ANOTHER THING THAT STRUCK ME WAS
ANOTHER THING THAT STRUCK ME WAS THE LACK OF ANY PUBLIC
THE LACK OF ANY PUBLIC CONTRITION FROM PAUL MANAFORT.
CONTRITION FROM PAUL MANAFORT. HIS STATEMENT WAS VERY BRIEF.
HIS STATEMENT WAS VERY BRIEF. WE WERE IN THE COURTROOM FOR
WE WERE IN THE COURTROOM FOR ABOUT THREE HOURS ALL TOGETHER
ABOUT THREE HOURS ALL TOGETHER TODAY, AND HIS STATEMENT
TODAY, AND HIS STATEMENT AMOUNTED TO FOUR MINUTES.
AMOUNTED TO FOUR MINUTES. THE STRONGEST THING HE SAID WAS
THE STRONGEST THING HE SAID WAS HE RECOGNIZES IT’S HIS CONDUCT
HE RECOGNIZES IT’S HIS CONDUCT THAT BROUGHT HIM HERE BUT THERE
THAT BROUGHT HIM HERE BUT THERE WAS NO REGRET REALLY.
WAS NO REGRET REALLY. CERTAINLY NO REMORSE AND NO KIND
CERTAINLY NO REMORSE AND NO KIND OF GRANULAR DESCRIPTION OF WHAT
OF GRANULAR DESCRIPTION OF WHAT HE DID WRONG OR INTENDED THE
HE DID WRONG OR INTENDED THE BREAK THE LAW OR RECOGNIZE THE
BREAK THE LAW OR RECOGNIZE THE SEVERITY OF WHAT HE HAD DONE.
SEVERITY OF WHAT HE HAD DONE. IT WAS MOSTLY A STATEMENT OF,
IT WAS MOSTLY A STATEMENT OF, YOU KNOW, THANKING HIS FAMILY,
YOU KNOW, THANKING HIS FAMILY, PRAISING THE JUDGE.
PRAISING THE JUDGE. HE MUST HAVE DONE THAT ON THINK
HE MUST HAVE DONE THAT ON THINK THREE DIFFERENT OCCASIONS AND
THREE DIFFERENT OCCASIONS AND SORT OF APOLOGIZING FOR THE
SORT OF APOLOGIZING FOR THE TRAMA THAT HIS FRIENDS AND LOVED
TRAMA THAT HIS FRIENDS AND LOVED ONES HAD EXPERIENCED.
ONES HAD EXPERIENCED. BUT VERY LITTLE INTEREST BEYOND
BUT VERY LITTLE INTEREST BEYOND THAT AND THEN THE FINAL THING I
THAT AND THEN THE FINAL THING I REALLY TOOK AWAY, RACHEL, THIS
REALLY TOOK AWAY, RACHEL, THIS JUDGE CONTINUES TO HAVE A DEEP
JUDGE CONTINUES TO HAVE A DEEP RESERVATION ABOUT MUELLER’S
RESERVATION ABOUT MUELLER’S OPERATION.
OPERATION. HE SAID AT ONE POINT HE SNAPPED,
HE SAID AT ONE POINT HE SNAPPED, WE ALL KNOW WHY WE’RE HERE AND
WE ALL KNOW WHY WE’RE HERE AND ONE PROSECUTOR AT ONE POINT SAID
ONE PROSECUTOR AT ONE POINT SAID THE GOVERNMENT’S POSITION ON
THE GOVERNMENT’S POSITION ON THIS IS THAT WE DON’T
THIS IS THAT WE DON’T RECOMMEND -- I’M SORRY, HE SAID
RECOMMEND -- I’M SORRY, HE SAID THE SPECIAL COUNSEL’S POSITION
THE SPECIAL COUNSEL’S POSITION ON THIS IS WE DON’T RECOMMEND
ON THIS IS WE DON’T RECOMMEND SPECIFIC SENTENCES FOR SPECIFIC
SPECIFIC SENTENCES FOR SPECIFIC DEFENDANTS AND THE JUDGE
DEFENDANTS AND THE JUDGE SNAPPED, DON’T SAY SPECIAL
SNAPPED, DON’T SAY SPECIAL COUNSEL’S OFFICE, SAY THE
COUNSEL’S OFFICE, SAY THE GOVERNMENT’S POSITION.
GOVERNMENT’S POSITION. YOU’RE TALKING ABOUT THE
YOU’RE TALKING ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT.
GOVERNMENT. SO IT SEEMED LIKE JUDGE ELLIS
SO IT SEEMED LIKE JUDGE ELLIS STILL HAS AN ISSUE WITH SPECIAL
STILL HAS AN ISSUE WITH SPECIAL COUNSEL’SS GENERALLY AND MAYBE
COUNSEL’SS GENERALLY AND MAYBE MUELLER SPECIFICALLY AND THE
MUELLER SPECIFICALLY AND THE DEGREE THAT MAY HAVE COLORED THE
DEGREE THAT MAY HAVE COLORED THE SENTENCE HE DELIVERED TODAY, I
SENTENCE HE DELIVERED TODAY, I DON’T KNOW.
DON’T KNOW. HE INSISTED IT DIDN’T BUT IT’S A
HE INSISTED IT DIDN’T BUT IT’S A LIGHTER SENTENCE THAN MANY
LIGHTER SENTENCE THAN MANY EXPECTED.
EXPECTED. >> TO THAT POINT IN TERMS OF HIM
>> TO THAT POINT IN TERMS OF HIM INSISTING THAT WASN’T A FACTOR
INSISTING THAT WASN’T A FACTOR FOR HIM, A BUNCH OF PEOPLE WHO
FOR HIM, A BUNCH OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE ARGUED TRIALS IN THIS
HAVE ARGUED TRIALS IN THIS COURTROOM AND OBSERVED THIS
COURTROOM AND OBSERVED THIS JUDGE OVER THE COURSE OF HIS
JUDGE OVER THE COURSE OF HIS THREE DECADES ON THE BENCH TOLD
THREE DECADES ON THE BENCH TOLD US TO EXPECT THAT ANY ALLOCUTION
US TO EXPECT THAT ANY ALLOCUTION TODAY FROM MANAFORT WOULD BE
TODAY FROM MANAFORT WOULD BE IMPORTANT, THAT IT’S VERY
IMPORTANT, THAT IT’S VERY IMPORTANT TO THE JUDGE THAT
IMPORTANT TO THE JUDGE THAT PEOPLE DO ACCEPT RESPONSIBILITY,
PEOPLE DO ACCEPT RESPONSIBILITY, THAT THEY DO EXPRESS REGRET AND
THAT THEY DO EXPRESS REGRET AND THEY DO APPEAR TO BE SINCERELY
THEY DO APPEAR TO BE SINCERELY REMORSEFUL.
REMORSEFUL. THAT’S LIKE THE NOTES WE WERE
THAT’S LIKE THE NOTES WE WERE TAKING TODAY WATCHING FOR THAT
TAKING TODAY WATCHING FOR THAT FROM MANAFORT.
FROM MANAFORT. FOR MANAFORT TO NOT PROVIDE THAT
FOR MANAFORT TO NOT PROVIDE THAT AND NOT GIVE THE JUDGE ANY OF
AND NOT GIVE THE JUDGE ANY OF THAT AND THE JUDGE TO
THAT AND THE JUDGE TO NEVERTHELESS GIVE HIM A BIG
NEVERTHELESS GIVE HIM A BIG DOWNWARD DEPARTURE FROM THE
DOWNWARD DEPARTURE FROM THE GUIDELINES, DID THE JUDGE GIVE
GUIDELINES, DID THE JUDGE GIVE ANY INDICATION OF WHY HE WAS
ANY INDICATION OF WHY HE WAS GIVING SUCH A LIGHTER SENTENCE
GIVING SUCH A LIGHTER SENTENCE THAN THE GUIDELINES WOULD HAVE
THAN THE GUIDELINES WOULD HAVE SUGGESTED HE MIGHT HAVE?
SUGGESTED HE MIGHT HAVE? >> WELL, THE JUDGE DID SAY HE
>> WELL, THE JUDGE DID SAY HE WAS SURPRISED THAT MANAFORT
WAS SURPRISED THAT MANAFORT DIDN’T MAKE A MORE REMORSEFUL
DIDN’T MAKE A MORE REMORSEFUL STATEMENT OR REGRETFUL STATEMENT
STATEMENT OR REGRETFUL STATEMENT OR EVEN ACKNOWLEDGE THAT HE WAS
OR EVEN ACKNOWLEDGE THAT HE WAS WRONG TO HAVE BROKEN THE LAW,
WRONG TO HAVE BROKEN THE LAW, BUT THEN THE VERY NEXT THING THE
BUT THEN THE VERY NEXT THING THE JUDGE SAID WAS THAT THAT’S NOT
JUDGE SAID WAS THAT THAT’S NOT GOING TO AFFECT MY DECISION HERE
GOING TO AFFECT MY DECISION HERE TODAY.
TODAY. THE BEST EXPLANATION HE GAVE
THE BEST EXPLANATION HE GAVE ABOUT WHY HE WAS GOING WAY BELOW
ABOUT WHY HE WAS GOING WAY BELOW THE GUIDELINES WAS THAT HE FELT
THE GUIDELINES WAS THAT HE FELT THAT THEY ARE OUT OF WHACK
THAT THEY ARE OUT OF WHACK COMPARED WITH THE WAY PEOPLE ARE
COMPARED WITH THE WAY PEOPLE ARE GENERALLY SENTENCED IN CASES
GENERALLY SENTENCED IN CASES THAT INVOLVE PRIMARILY TAX
THAT INVOLVE PRIMARILY TAX EVASION AND NOT REPORTING YOUR
EVASION AND NOT REPORTING YOUR FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS.
FOREIGN BANK ACCOUNTS. HE SAID A TYPICAL SENTENCE IN
HE SAID A TYPICAL SENTENCE IN CASES SUCH AS THAT IS USUALLY
CASES SUCH AS THAT IS USUALLY SOMEWHERE IN THE RANGE OF SIX
SOMEWHERE IN THE RANGE OF SIX MONTHS TO A YEAR, MANY OF THEM
MONTHS TO A YEAR, MANY OF THEM RESULT IN PROBATION ONLY.
RESULT IN PROBATION ONLY. THIS PARTICULAR JUDGE HAD A CASE
THIS PARTICULAR JUDGE HAD A CASE ABOUT A YEAR OR TWO AGO WHERE
ABOUT A YEAR OR TWO AGO WHERE SOMEBODY HAD HIDDEN $220 MILLION
SOMEBODY HAD HIDDEN $220 MILLION OVERSEAS AND STASHED, I THINK,
OVERSEAS AND STASHED, I THINK, AVOIDED ABOUT $18 MILLION IN
AVOIDED ABOUT $18 MILLION IN TAXES AND GOT SOMETHING ONLY ON
TAXES AND GOT SOMETHING ONLY ON THE ORDER OF SWITCHEVEN-MONTH PR
THE ORDER OF SWITCHEVEN-MONTH PR SENTENCE.
SENTENCE. IT SEEMED LIKE THE JUDGE, JUDGE
IT SEEMED LIKE THE JUDGE, JUDGE ELLIS FELT MANAFORT’S CASE WAS
ELLIS FELT MANAFORT’S CASE WAS MAYBE A LITTLE MORE SEVERE THAN
MAYBE A LITTLE MORE SEVERE THAN A GARDEN VARIETY TAX EVASION
A GARDEN VARIETY TAX EVASION CASE, BUT HE WASN’T BUYING THE
CASE, BUT HE WASN’T BUYING THE NOTION THAT THIS WAS AN
NOTION THAT THIS WAS AN INCREDIBLY DANGEROUS SCHEME THAT
INCREDIBLY DANGEROUS SCHEME THAT REALLY NEEDED TO BE PUNISHED
REALLY NEEDED TO BE PUNISHED WITH AN EXTRAORDINARY LONG
WITH AN EXTRAORDINARY LONG SENTENCE.
SENTENCE. >> SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS
>> SENIOR LEGAL AFFAIRS CONTRIBUTOR.
CONTRIBUTOR. CAN I BOOK YOU TO GO TO THE D.C.
CAN I BOOK YOU TO GO TO THE D.C. SENTENCING.
SENTENCING. ARE YOU BUSY?
ARE YOU BUSY? >> I’M PLANNING TO BE THERE WITH
>> I’M PLANNING TO BE THERE WITH BELLS ON.
BELLS ON. >> I’LL TALK TO YOU THEN.
>> I’LL TALK TO YOU THEN. >> THANKS.
>> THANKS. >>> FORMER U.S. ATTORNEY BARB